The English language belongs to the Indo-European language family and in this sense it is distantly related to Hindi , Urdu , Persian etc. It is placed in the Germanic branch of this family . It is considered the first international language of the world. It is the main official language of many countries of the world and in today's era, it is also the main language of science, computer, literature, politics and higher education in many countries (mainly in former British colonies). The English language is written in the Roman script .

It is a West Germanic language that originated in Anglo-Saxon England . As a result of the military, scientific, political, economic, and cultural influence of the United States in the early 19th century [ fact needed ] and the British Empire in the 18th, 19th and 20th centuries, it has become a lingua franca in many parts of the world. [ 1 ] It is widely used as a second language and an official language in many international organizations and Commonwealth countries .

Historically, the English language originated from a number of dialects brought to England by Anglo-Saxon settlers beginning in the 5th century, now known as Old English . The Old Norse language of the Viking invaders had a profound influence on the English language. After the Norman Conquest , Old English evolved into Middle English , which used a great deal of Norman vocabulary and spelling rules. Modern English evolved from there and continues to adopt foreign words from many languages ​​as well as coin new words. A large number of English words, especially technical terms, are formed from ancient Greek and Latin roots.

Importance
Modern English, sometimes described as the first global lingua franca , [ 2 ] [ 3 ] is the dominant international language in the fields of communications , science , business , [ 2 ] aviation , entertainment, radio and diplomacy . [ 4 ] [ 4 ] Its spread beyond the British Isles began with the growth of the British Empire and by the end of the 19th century its reach was truly global. [ 5 ] [ 5 ] It is the dominant language of the United States. Since World War II, the spread of the English language has accelerated significantly due to America's recognition as a global superpower and its growing economic and cultural influence. [ 3 ]

A working knowledge of the English language has become a necessity for many fields, such as medicine and computers; as a result, over a billion people speak at least a basic level of English (see: Learning and teaching the English language). It is also one of the six official languages ​​of the United Nations .

According to linguists such as David Crystal, one effect of the widespread spread of English, as with other global languages, is the reduction of local language diversity in many parts of the world, particularly in Australasia and North America , and its massive impact continues to play a significant role in language attrition . [ 6 ] Similarly, historical linguists , aware of the complexity and dynamics of language change , are aware of the enormous potential that English has to spawn a new family of distinct languages . This is due, these linguists say, to the sheer size of the language and the spread of its users, as well as its natural internal diversity, such as its creoles and pidgins . [ 7 ]

History
English is a West Germanic language descended from Anglo-Frisian and Lower Saxon dialects. These dialects were brought to Britain in the 5th century by Germanic nomads and Roman auxiliaries from various parts of what is now northwestern Germany and the northern Netherlands . [ citation needed ] One of these Germanic tribes were the Angles , [ 8 ] who probably came from Angeln . Bede writes that their whole nation left their old lands and came to Britain. [ 9 ] The names 'England' and ' English ' are derived from this tribe.
The Anglo-Saxons began invading from Denmark and Jutland in 449 AD . [ 10 ] [ 11 ] Before their arrival the indigenous people of England spoke Brythonic , a Celtic language. [ 12 ] Although the most significant changes in the dialect occurred after the Norman invasion of 1066 , the language retained its name and the pre-Norman dialect is now called Old English .

Old English was initially a group of diverse dialects reflecting the diversity of the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms in Great Britain. [ 13 ] One of these dialects, Late West Saxon, eventually came to dominate. The original Old English language was then affected by two waves of invasion. The first was by speakers of the North Germanic branch of the Germanic family; they conquered and colonised parts of the British Isles in the 8th and 9th centuries. The second was the Normans of the 11th century , who spoke the Old Norman language and developed an English variety called Anglo-Norman . (Over the centuries, it lost its distinctive Norman element to the influence of Parisian French and then English, eventually evolving into the distinctive Anglo-French dialect.) As a result of these two influences, English became somewhat "mixed" (although it has never been a true mix of languages ​​in the strictly linguistic sense; mixes are languages ​​that arise when speakers of different languages ​​mix. They develop a common language for communication).

Cohabitation with Scandinavians resulted in the lexical supplementation of the Anglo-Frisian core of the English language. The subsequent Norman occupation resulted in the beautification of the Germanic core of the language, incorporating many beautiful words from the Romance languages . This Norman influence entered English mainly through the courts and government. English thus developed as a "borrowed" language with flexibility and a large vocabulary.

The rise and expansion of the British Empire , as well as the emergence of the United States as a great power , resulted in the spread of English throughout the world. [ citation needed ]

History of English Vocabulary
In the fifth and sixth centuries the British Isles were invaded from the north by Angle and Saxon tribes, who pushed the local people, who spoke Celtic languages, into Scotland, Ireland and Wales.

In the eighth and ninth century, attacks by Vikings and Norse tribes from the north had also started and thus the area of ​​present England became a country of people speaking many languages ​​and many old words got new meanings. For example, the meaning of dream till that time was to enjoy but the Vikings from the north gave it the meaning of a dream. Similarly, the word skirt also came here with the northern attackers. But its form changed to shirt. Later both the words started being used in different meanings and are being used till date.

The period from 500 to 1100 is called the period of Old English. In 1066 AD, the Duke of Normandy attacked England and conquered the Anglo-Saxon tribes here. Thus, words of Old French language started appearing in the local language. This period of English continued from 1100 to 1500 and this period of expansion of English is called Middle English. Many English words related to law and crime-punishment became popular during this period. In English literature, Chaucer 's poetry is considered an important example of this language.

The modern period of English begins after 1500 in which some words from the Greek language started appearing. This period begins with the name of writers like Shakespeare and this period continues till 1800. After that, the most modern period of English begins in which English grammar has become simple and many words from the languages ​​of the new colonial Asian and African people of the British have been included in it. American English has also acquired a special place due to the increasing influence of America
in world politics, literatur